OSDOCS-16945#CQA work Stor1 - understanding persistent storage (#114120)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/storage-persistent-storage-lifecycle.adoc

[id=lifecycle-volume-claim_{context}]
= Lifecycle of a volume and claim

[role="_abstract"]

> Persistent volume (PV) lifecycle follows five phases: provision, bind, use, release, and reclaim, each with behaviors affecting storage availability and data retention. Understanding this helps you choose reclaim policies, troubleshoot binding failures, and prevent data loss.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The persistent volume (PV) lifecycle follows five phases: provision, bind, use, release, and reclaim. Each phase has behaviors that affect storage availability and data retention. Understanding the lifecycle helps you choose reclaim policies, troubleshoot binding failures, and prevent data loss.
```

Claims remain unbound indefinitely if a matching volume does not exist or cannot be created with any available provisioner servicing a storage class. Claims are bound as matching volumes become available. For example, a cluster with many manually provisioned 50Gi volumes would not match a PVC requesting 100Gi. The PVC can be bound when a 100Gi PV is added to the cluster.

[id="using-pods_{context}"]
== Use pods and claimed PVs
Pods use claims as volumes. The cluster inspects the claim to find the bound volume and mounts that volume for a pod. For those volumes that support multiple access modes, you must specify which mode applies when you use the claim as a volume in a pod.

After you have a claim, and that claim is bound, the bound PV belongs to you for as long as you need it. You can schedule pods and access claimed PVs by including `persistentVolumeClaim` in the pod's volumes block.

[NOTE]
====
If you attach persistent volumes that have high file counts to pods, those pods can fail or can take a long time to start. For

> more information, see the KB article "When using Persistent Volumes with high file counts in OpenShift, why do pods fail to start or take an excessive amount of time to achieve "Ready" state?".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
more information, see the Red{nbsp}Hat Knowledgebase article "When using Persistent Volumes with high file counts in OpenShift, why do pods fail to start or take an excessive amount of time to achieve "Ready" state?".
```

multiple access modes, you must specify which mode applies when you use
the claim as a volume in a pod.

Once you have a claim and that claim is bound, the bound PV belongs to you
for as long as you need it. You can schedule pods and access claimed
PVs by including `persistentVolumeClaim` in the pod's volumes block.
After you have a claim, and that claim is bound, the bound PV belongs to you for as long as you need it. You can schedule pods and access claimed PVs by including `persistentVolumeClaim` in the pod's volumes block.

[NOTE]
====
If you attach persistent volumes that have high file counts to pods, those pods can fail or can take a long time to start. For
more information, see link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/6221251[When using Persistent Volumes with high file counts in OpenShift, why do pods fail to start or take an excessive amount of time to achieve "Ready" state?].
more information, see the KB article "When using Persistent Volumes with high file counts in OpenShift, why do pods fail to start or take an excessive amount of time to achieve "Ready" state?".
==== 

ifdef::openshift-origin,openshift-enterprise,openshift-webscale[]

> [id="pvcprotection_{context}"]

Reviewer: I think we're supposed to leave existing IDs as they are.

[IMPORTANT]
====
The `Recycle` reclaim policy is deprecated in {product-title} 4. Dynamic provisioning is recommended for equivalent and better functionality.
====

> * `Delete` reclaim policy deletes  both the `PersistentVolume` object from {product-title} and the associated storage asset in external

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Delete` reclaim policy deletes both the `PersistentVolume` object from {product-title} and the associated storage asset in external
```
